Welcome back everyone to this lecture on deep compositional Ganz deep compositional gains are actually
not a huge leap from what we just did.
They basically just add in conversational layers to attempt to build Ganz better suited for image data.
It makes sense that if we use convolution or layers for image classification we should probably also
use them inside of our discriminator to classify fake versus real images and we should also take advantages
of they are unique to the capabilities to actually generate images.
So what we're going to do in this lecture is we're just going to take a look at the DC Gan notebook
that we have for you and we're going to see what the changes are inside of the notebook.
We're not going to actually code this all out because really that there's just a few changes as far
as building out the models and then compiling the models everything else pretty much remains the same.
It's just the actual layers you're putting in there.
So it's just a couple of more imports and then setting up the layers.
And these are things you can always experiment with.
Let's go ahead and load up that notebook and walk you through it.
OK.
Here I am at the notebook.
You'll notice that everything at the top is pretty much exactly the same.
We load up the data however the one thing that we do need to change is reshaping and re scaling the
images our generator at the very end uses a hyperbolic tangent activation function and a hyperbolic
tangent if you actually plot this out the limits of a hyperbolic tangent go from negative 1 to 1 and
our images either go from zero to turn fifty five or if you scale them down they go from zero to one
we actually want to make sure that our training data is going to have the same range off of this hyperbolic
tangent activation in that last layer.
So we need to do is we need to reshape it to be between negative 1 to 1.
So the way we do that is we just take all our training data.
We divide it by two and fifty fives and then everything's between 0 and 1 and then we multiply that
data after reshaping it times 2.
And I have everything between 0 and 2 and then if you subtract 1 well then the lowest values from 0
go to negative 1 and the highest values set to go to 1 and then your minimum becomes negative 1 and
your maximum becomes 1 and if you just take a look at what the hyperbolic tangent looks like you'll
see what I'm talking about there.
OK then we continue just as we did before we we went ahead and filtered out only zeros if you want for
these more complex compositional network based scans you can go ahead and just use all the data.
Just keep in mind training time should take longer.
And then we're going to import a couple more layers here in order to try to get the best performance
possible.
We still have dense and reshape but we're also doing is we're importing leaky rectified linear unit.
It's an activation function that tends to work a little better than just the rectified linear unit.
In this case of deep convolution gains and then we're also going to be performing batch normalization
as well as getting these two compositional to the layers.
And also this transpose layer.
So we have these extra layers and essentially we just build out the generator and discriminator using
those extra layers.
So if we take a look at the generator me zoom in one more here we can see it starts off sequential.
We also have this dense layer here we have seven by seven times one hundred and twenty eight.
You can kind of choose how many neurons you want there by editing 128 and then we reshape this to be
7 by 7 by 128.
And for that batch we then perform batch normalization.
Keep in mind you have a lot of leeway here over how many neurons you want in each layer or how many
kernels there should be in the next convolution layer.
So what we do here is we have a compositional to the transpose layer and then we decide to have sixty
four kernels kernel size is five strides is to note that padding we keep the same lot of things you
can experiment with here and then we add in another layer of batch normalization right before our second
compositional to the layer here and at the very end we just have one output for that image.
OK then we have discriminator which is a sequential model.
And notice it's kind of like a mirrored image a bit of the generator.
So we start off of a convolution layer of sixty four we add a little bit of drop out here 50 percent
drop out to try to prevent over fitting hopefully making discriminator stronger between real images
versus fake images and then we add in another compositional to the layer expanding the number of number
of kernels or image kernels there and then we also add in a drop layer zero point five at the end we
flatten all this out to a single dense neuron essentially saying is it a real image is it a fake image.
And notice the activation is sigmoid because of that OK then we combine these two into the sequential
generator and discriminatory game and then we compile the discriminator using lost binary cross entropy
because it's essentially real or fake.
It's binary.
And then we set discriminative trainable equal to False before we compile the full again and the full
again also takes binary cross entropy with optimizer atom.
And from that it continues the same way we left off last time we can see the two layers.
We can set up the training batches notice training batch set up just the same as before.
One thing to note here is we're going to train this for a lot more epochs because these networks are
a lot more complex going to take a lot more epochs to actually get good results.
And because of that this is really where you need to be using GPA to have a reasonable amount of time
for training.
Training loop is pretty much exactly the same.
So we see the exact same training loop as we did before.
And if you scroll down I trained it for 20 epochs here you can see my results.
Recall that our previous models suffered mode collapse and the actual images themselves weren't super
great but using deep compositional Ganz we've only zeros we can see here we get much better results.
And what's really nice here is we also get variety in our results so we don't just get the same zero
for all these.
OK so really interesting stuff and a lot of stuff you can play around with here.
I would highly encourage you to play around with all the different hyper parameters that are available
to you within this network.
Just make sure to use a GP use you're not waiting forever for all your new designs.
Okay thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture.